wiki/1

§ lfg-format

⸺ by Charles Iliya Krempeaux

The **lfg-format** is an **image** [[data-format]] created by **Charles Iliya Krempeaux**.

The **lfg-format** is meant to not only be [[human-legible]], [[programmer-legible]], and [[machine-legible]], but — it is also meant to be [[human-friendly]].

I.e., the **lfg-format** not only is the **lfg-format** meant to be easy for (non-programmer) humans, programmers, and machines (i.e., computers) to reaf it and understand, but — it is meant to be easy for a (non-programmer) human to create and edit it themselves.

These concerns are placed higher than other concerns, such as file-size minimization.
(Compression and other concerns are handled at other levels.)

"//LFG//" is an initialization of "//legible friendly graphics//".

The **lfg-format** is somewhat similar to the [[pbm-format]], the [[pgm-format]], the [[ppm-format]], the [[xbm-format]], and the [[xpm-format]].

§§ Example

Here is an example **lfg-format** image:

	LFG/1
	8
	16
	25
	#55ffff ■
	#ff55ff □

	■■■■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□□□□□□
	■□□□□□□□
	■■■■■■■■

A **lfg-format** image is a [[unicode]] [[utf-8]] file that starts with the "magic" on the first line:

	LFG/1

(The "LFG" has to be a [[upper-case]] letters.)

Next comes the **width** of the image data.
In the case of this example, the //width// is:

	8

After that comes the **height** of the image data..
In the case of this example, the //height// is:

	16

(And thus the **image data** will be 8×16.)

And then after that comes **magnification**.
In the case of this example, the //magnification// is:

	25

(And thus, even though our **image data** will be 8×16, the actual image will be 200×400 — because 8 times 25 equals 200, and 16 timrs 25 equals 400.)

After that comes the [[color-palette]], which includes the character used for that color.
In the case of this example, it is:

	#55ffff ■
	#ff55ff □

Our example only has 2 colors.
**But we could have used more or less colors than the number of colors this example had.##

We know then the [[color-palette]] rows end because there will be a //single empty line//.

After that is the **image data**.
In the case of this example, it is:

	■■■■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□■■■■■
	■□□□□□□□
	■□□□□□□□
	■■■■■■■■

§§ End-Of-Line

There are 3 valid [[end-of-line]] characters:

• LF  (U+000A) (line-feed)
• NEL (U+0085) (next-line)
• LS  (U+2028) (line-separator)

The CR (U+000D) character is ignored.

§§ Image Data

[[end-of-line]] and spacing characters within image data is //not// significant.

For example, this is the same image as before:

	LFG/1
	8
	16
	25
	#55ffff ■
	#ff55ff □

	■■■■■■■■■□□■■■■■■□□■■■■■■□□■■■■■■□□■■■■■■□□■■■■■■□□■■■■■■□□■■■■■■□□■■■■■■□□■■■■■■□□■■■■■■□□■■■■■■□□■■■■■■□□□□□□□■□□□□□□□■■■■■■■■

§§ Missing Image Data

If there is less **image data** than what the width×height says there should be, then the missing data should be set to the first palette color.

In the case of our example, it was:

	#55ffff ■

§§ Example

Here is another lfg image:

	LFG/1
	8
	8
	64
	#000000 .
	#233f8b □
	#fdbd96 ■
	
	........
	...□□...
	..□□□□..
	..□■□■..
	..□□□□..
	..□□□□..
	..□□□□..
	..□□□□..

In this example, the **image data** is 8×8, which gets magnified by a factor of 25, to make the actual image 200×200.
It used 3 colors: ``#000000``, ``#233f8b``, and ``#fdbd96``.
